# <a id="states_and_properties"></a>6. Supported States and Properties

This section is [normative](#def_normative).

## <a id="statevsprop"></a>6.1. Clarification of States versus Properties

The terms "states" and "properties" refer to similar features. Both provide specific information about an [object](#def_object), and both form part of the definition of the nature of [roles](#def_role). In this document, states and properties are both treated as aria-prefixed markup [attributes](#def_attribute). However, they are maintained conceptually distinct to clarify subtle differences in their meaning. One major difference is that the [values](#def_value) of properties (such as [`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby)) are often less likely to change throughout the application life-cycle than the values of states (such as [`aria-checked`](#aria-checked)) which may change frequently due to user interaction. Note that the frequency of change difference is not a rule; a few properties, such as [`aria-activedescendant`](#aria-activedescendant), [`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow), and [`aria-valuetext`](#aria-valuetext) are expected to change often. Because the distinction between states and properties is of little consequence to most web content authors, this specification refers to both "states" and "properties" simply as "attributes" whenever possible. See the definitions of [state](#def_state) and [property](#def_property) for more information.

## <a id="state_prop_att"></a>6.2. Characteristics of States and Properties

States and properties have the characteristics described in the following sections.

### <a id="propcharacteristic_relatedconcept"></a>6.2.1. Related Concepts

Advisory information about features from this or other languages that correspond to this [state](#def_state) or [property](#def_property). While the correspondence may not be exact, it is useful to help understand the intent of the state or property.

### <a id="propcharacteristic_usedinrole"></a>6.2.2. Used in Roles

Advisory information about [roles](#role_definitions) that use this [state](#def_state) or [property](#def_property). This information is provided to help understand the appropriate usage of the state or property. Use of a given state or property is not defined when used on roles other than those listed.

### <a id="propcharacteristic_inheritsintoroles"></a>6.2.3. Inherits into Roles

Advisory information about [roles](#role_definitions) that inherit the [state](#def_state) or [property](#def_property) from an ancestor role.

### <a id="propcharacteristic_value"></a>6.2.4. Value

Value type of the [state](#def_state) or [property](#def_property). The value may be one of the following types:

<a id="valuetype_true-false"></a>**true/false**

Value representing either true or false, with a default "false" value.

<a id="valuetype_tristate"></a>**tristate**

Value representing true or false, with an intermediate "mixed" value. Default value is "false" unless otherwise specified.

<a id="valuetype_true-false-undefined"></a>**true/false/undefined**

Value representing true or false, with a default "undefined" value indicating the state or property is not relevant.

<a id="valuetype_idref"></a>**ID reference**

Reference to the ID of another [element](#def_element) in the same document

<a id="valuetype_idref_list"></a>**ID reference list**

A list of one or more ID references.

<a id="valuetype_integer"></a>**integer**

A numerical value without a fractional component.

<a id="valuetype_number"></a>**number**

Any real numerical value.

<a id="valuetype_string"></a>**string**

Unconstrained value type.

<a id="valuetype_token"></a>**token**

One of a limited set of allowed values.

<a id="valuetype_token_list"></a>**token list**

A list of one or more tokens.

The "undefined" value, when allowed on a state or property, is an explicit indication that the state or property is not set. The value is used on states and properties that support tokens, and the "undefined" value is a string that is one of the allowed tokens. It is also used on some states and properties that accept true/false values, when "undefined" has a different meaning than "false".

These are generic types for states and properties, but do not define specific representation. See [State and Property Attribute Processing](#state_property_processing) for details on how these values are expressed and handled in host languages.

## <a id="state_prop_values"></a>6.3. Values for States and Properties

Many [states](#def_state) and [properties](#def_property) accept a specific set of tokens as [values](#def_value). The allowed values and explanation of their meaning is shown after the table of characteristics. The default value, if defined, is shown in **strong** type, followed by the parenthetical term 'default'. When a value is indicated as the default, the user agent **MUST** follow the behavior prescribed by this value when the state or property is empty or undefined. Some [roles](#def_role) also define what behavior to use when certain states or properties, that do not have default values, are not provided.

## <a id="global_states"></a>6.4. Global States and Properties

Some [states](#def_state) and [properties](#def_property) are applicable to all host language [elements](#def_element) regardless of whether a [role](#def_role) is applied. The following global states and properties are supported by all roles and by all base markup elements.

* [`aria-atomic`](#aria-atomic)
* [`aria-busy` (state)](#aria-busy)
* [`aria-controls`](#aria-controls)
* [`aria-describedby`](#aria-describedby)
* [`aria-disabled` (state)](#aria-disabled)
* [`aria-dropeffect`](#aria-dropeffect)
* [`aria-flowto`](#aria-flowto)
* [`aria-grabbed` (state)](#aria-grabbed)
* [`aria-haspopup`](#aria-haspopup)
* [`aria-hidden` (state)](#aria-hidden)
* [`aria-invalid` (state)](#aria-invalid)
* [`aria-label`](#aria-label)
* [`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby)
* [`aria-live`](#aria-live)
* [`aria-owns`](#aria-owns)
* [`aria-relevant`](#aria-relevant)

Global states and properties are applied to the role [`roletype`](#roletype), which is the base role, and therefore inherit into all roles. To facilitate reading, they are not explicitly identified as either supported or inherited states and properties in the specification. Instead, the inheritance is indicated by a link to this section.

## <a id="state_prop_taxonomy"></a>6.5. Taxonomy of WAI-ARIA States and Properties

States and properties are categorized as follows:

1. [Widget Attributes](#attrs_widgets)
2. [Live Region Attributes](#attrs_liveregions)
3. [Drag-and-Drop Attributes](#attrs_dragdrop)
4. [Relationship Attributes](#attrs_relationships)

### <a id="attrs_widgets"></a>6.5.1. Widget Attributes

This section contains [attributes](#def_attribute) specific to common user interface [elements](#def_element) found on GUI systems or in rich internet applications which receive user input and process user actions. These attributes are used to support the [widget roles](#widget_roles).

* [`aria-autocomplete`](#aria-autocomplete)
* [`aria-checked` (state)](#aria-checked)
* [`aria-disabled` (state)](#aria-disabled)
* [`aria-expanded` (state)](#aria-expanded)
* [`aria-haspopup`](#aria-haspopup)
* [`aria-hidden` (state)](#aria-hidden)
* [`aria-invalid` (state)](#aria-invalid)
* [`aria-label`](#aria-label)
* [`aria-level`](#aria-level)
* [`aria-multiline`](#aria-multiline)
* [`aria-multiselectable`](#aria-multiselectable)
* [`aria-orientation`](#aria-orientation)
* [`aria-pressed` (state)](#aria-pressed)
* [`aria-readonly`](#aria-readonly)
* [`aria-required`](#aria-required)
* [`aria-selected` (state)](#aria-selected)
* [`aria-sort`](#aria-sort)
* [`aria-valuemax`](#aria-valuemax)
* [`aria-valuemin`](#aria-valuemin)
* [`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow)
* [`aria-valuetext`](#aria-valuetext)

Widget attributes might be mapped by a [user agent](#def_useragent) to platform [accessibility API](#def_accessibility_api) [states](#def_state), for access by [assistive technologies](#def_at), or they might be accessed directly from the DOM. User agents **MUST** provide a way for assistive technologies to be notified when states change, either through DOM attribute change [events](#def_event) or platform accessibility API events.

### <a id="attrs_liveregions"></a>6.5.2. Live Region Attributes

This section contains [attributes](#def_attribute) specific to [live regions](#def_liveregion) in rich internet applications. These attributes may be applied to any [element](#def_element). The purpose of these attributes is to indicate that content changes may occur without the element having focus, and to provide [assistive technologies](#def_at) with information on how to process those content updates. Some [roles](#def_role) specify a default [value](#def_value) for the [`aria-live`](#aria-live) attribute specific to that role. An example of a live region is a ticker section that lists updating stock quotes.

* [`aria-atomic`](#aria-atomic)
* [`aria-busy` (state)](#aria-busy)
* [`aria-live`](#aria-live)
* [`aria-relevant`](#aria-relevant)

### <a id="attrs_dragdrop"></a>6.5.3. Drag-and-Drop Attributes

This section lists [attributes](#def_attribute) which indicate information about drag-and-drop interface [elements](#def_element), such as draggable elements and their drop targets. Drop target information will be rendered visually by the author and provided to [assistive technologies](#def_at) through an alternate modality.

* [`aria-dropeffect`](#aria-dropeffect)
* [`aria-grabbed` (state)](#aria-grabbed)

For more information about using drag-and-drop, see [Drag-and-Drop Support in the WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices](http://www.w3.org/TR/2013/WD-wai-aria-practices-20130307/#dragdrop) (\[[ARIA-PRACTICES](#ref_ARIA-PRACTICES)\]).

### <a id="attrs_relationships"></a>6.5.4. Relationship Attributes

This section lists [attributes](#def_attribute) that indicate [relationships](#def_relationship) or associations between [elements](#def_element) which cannot be readily determined from the document structure.

* [`aria-activedescendant`](#aria-activedescendant)
* [`aria-controls`](#aria-controls)
* [`aria-describedby`](#aria-describedby)
* [`aria-flowto`](#aria-flowto)
* [`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby)
* [`aria-owns`](#aria-owns)
* [`aria-posinset`](#aria-posinset)
* [`aria-setsize`](#aria-setsize)

## <a id="state_prop_def"></a>6.6. Definitions of States and Properties (all aria-* attributes)

Below is an alphabetical list of WAI-ARIA [states](#def_state) and [properties](#def_property) to be used by rich internet application authors. A detailed definition of each WAI-ARIA state and [property](#def_property) follows this compact list.

[`aria-activedescendant`](#aria-activedescendant)

Identifies the currently active descendant of a composite widget.

[`aria-atomic`](#aria-atomic)

Indicates whether assistive technologies will present all, or only parts of, the changed region based on the change notifications defined by the aria-relevant attribute. See related aria-relevant.

[`aria-autocomplete`](#aria-autocomplete)

Indicates whether user input completion suggestions are provided.

[`aria-busy` (state)](#aria-busy)

Indicates whether an element, and its subtree, are currently being updated.

[`aria-checked` (state)](#aria-checked)

Indicates the current "checked" state of checkboxes, radio buttons, and other widgets. See related aria-pressed and aria-selected.

[`aria-controls`](#aria-controls)

Identifies the element (or elements) whose contents or presence are controlled by the current element. See related aria-owns.

[`aria-describedby`](#aria-describedby)

Identifies the element (or elements) that describes the object. See related aria-labelledby.

[`aria-disabled` (state)](#aria-disabled)

Indicates that the element is perceivable but disabled, so it is not editable or otherwise operable. See related aria-hidden and aria-readonly.

[`aria-dropeffect`](#aria-dropeffect)

Indicates what functions can be performed when the dragged object is released on the drop target. This allows assistive technologies to convey the possible drag options available to users, including whether a pop-up menu of choices is provided by the application. Typically, drop effect functions can only be provided once an object has been grabbed for a drag operation as the drop effect functions available are dependent on the object being dragged.

[`aria-expanded` (state)](#aria-expanded)

Indicates whether the element, or another grouping element it controls, is currently expanded or collapsed.

[`aria-flowto`](#aria-flowto)

Identifies the next element (or elements) in an alternate reading order of content which, at the user's discretion, allows assistive technology to override the general default of reading in document source order.

[`aria-grabbed` (state)](#aria-grabbed)

Indicates an element's "grabbed" state in a drag-and-drop operation.

[`aria-haspopup`](#aria-haspopup)

Indicates that the element has a popup context menu or sub-level menu.

[`aria-hidden` (state)](#aria-hidden)

Indicates that the element and all of its descendants are not visible or perceivable to any user as implemented by the author. See related aria-disabled.

[`aria-invalid` (state)](#aria-invalid)

Indicates the entered value does not conform to the format expected by the application.

[`aria-label`](#aria-label)

Defines a string value that labels the current element. See related aria-labelledby.

[`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby)

Identifies the element (or elements) that labels the current element. See related aria-label and aria-describedby.

[`aria-level`](#aria-level)

Defines the hierarchical level of an element within a structure.

[`aria-live`](#aria-live)

Indicates that an element will be updated, and describes the types of updates the user agents, assistive technologies, and user can expect from the live region.

[`aria-multiline`](#aria-multiline)

Indicates whether a text box accepts multiple lines of input or only a single line.

[`aria-multiselectable`](#aria-multiselectable)

Indicates that the user may select more than one item from the current selectable descendants.

[`aria-orientation`](#aria-orientation)

Indicates whether the element and orientation is horizontal or vertical.

[`aria-owns`](#aria-owns)

Identifies an element (or elements) in order to define a visual, functional, or contextual parent/child relationship between DOM elements where the DOM hierarchy cannot be used to represent the relationship. See related aria-controls.

[`aria-posinset`](#aria-posinset)

Defines an element's number or position in the current set of listitems or treeitems. Not required if all elements in the set are present in the DOM. See related aria-setsize.

[`aria-pressed` (state)](#aria-pressed)

Indicates the current "pressed" state of toggle buttons. See related aria-checked and aria-selected.

[`aria-readonly`](#aria-readonly)

 Indicates that the element is not editable, but is otherwise operable. See related aria-disabled.

[`aria-relevant`](#aria-relevant)

Indicates what user agent change notifications (additions, removals, etc.) assistive technologies will receive within a live region. See related aria-atomic.

[`aria-required`](#aria-required)

Indicates that user input is required on the element before a form may be submitted.

[`aria-selected` (state)](#aria-selected)

Indicates the current "selected" state of various widgets. See related aria-checked and aria-pressed.

[`aria-setsize`](#aria-setsize)

Defines the number of items in the current set of listitems or treeitems. Not required if all elements in the set are present in the DOM. See related aria-posinset.

[`aria-sort`](#aria-sort)

Indicates if items in a table or grid are sorted in ascending or descending order.

[`aria-valuemax`](#aria-valuemax)

Defines the maximum allowed value for a range widget.

[`aria-valuemin`](#aria-valuemin)

Defines the minimum allowed value for a range widget.

[`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow)

Defines the current value for a range widget. See related aria-valuetext.

[`aria-valuetext`](#aria-valuetext)

Defines the human readable text alternative of aria-valuenow for a range widget.

---

### <a id="#aria-activedescendant"></a>`aria-activedescendant` (property)

Identifies the currently active descendant of a [`composite`](#composite) [widget](#def_widget).

This is used when a composite widget is responsible for managing its current active child to reduce the overhead of having all children be focusable. Examples include: multi-level lists, trees, and grids. In some implementations the [user agent](#def_useragent) may use `aria-activedescendant` to tell [assistive technologies](#def_at) that the active descendant has focus. Authors **MAY** use the `aria-activedescendant` attribute on the focused descendant of a composite widget; for example, on a textbox descendant of a combo box.

Authors **SHOULD** ensure that the [element](#def_element) targeted by the `aria-activedescendant` [attribute](#def_attribute) is either a descendant of the container in the DOM, or is a logical descendant as indicated by the [`aria-owns`](#aria-owns) attribute. The user agent is not expected to validate that the active descendant is a descendant of the container. Authors **SHOULD** ensure that the currently active descendant is visible and in view (or scrolls into view) when focused.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-activedescendant</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">
[SVG](http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/REC-SVG11-20030114/) \[[SVG](#ref_SVG)\] and [DOM](http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/REC-DOM-Level-2-Core-20001113/) \[[DOM](#ref_DOM)\] active</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`composite`](#composite)
* [`group`](#group)
* [`textbox`](#textbox)
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`combobox`](#combobox)
* [`grid`](#grid)
* [`listbox`](#listbox)
* [`menu`](#menu)
* [`menubar`](#menubar)
* [`radiogroup`](#radiogroup)
* [`row`](#row)
* [`rowgroup`](#rowgroup)
* [`select`](#select)
* [`tablist`](#tablist)
* [`toolbar`](#toolbar)
* [`tree`](#tree)
* [`treegrid`](#treegrid)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[ID reference](#valuetype_idref)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-atomic"></a>`aria-atomic` (property)

Indicates whether [assistive technologies](#def_at) will present all, or only parts of, the changed region based on the change notifications defined by the [`aria-relevant`](#aria-relevant) attribute. See related [`aria-relevant`](#aria-relevant).

Both [accessibility APIs](#def_accessibility_api) and the [Document Object Model](http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/REC-DOM-Level-2-Core-20001113/) \[[DOM](#ref_DOM)\] provide events to allow the assistive technologies to determine changed areas of the document.

When the content of a [live region](#def_liveregion) changes, user agents **SHOULD** examine the changed [element](#def_element) and traverse the ancestors to find the first element with `aria-atomic` set, and apply the appropriate behavior for the cases below.

1. If none of the ancestors have explicitly set `aria-atomic`, the default is that `aria-atomic` is `false`, and assistive technologies will only present the changed node to the user.
2. If `aria-atomic` is explicitly set to `false`, assistive technologies will stop searching up the ancestor chain and present only the changed node to the user.
3. If `aria-atomic` is explicitly set to `true`, assistive technologies will present the entire contents of the element.

When `aria-atomic` is `true`, assistive technologies **MAY** choose to combine several changes and present the entire changed region at once.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-atomic</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[true/false](#valuetype_true-false)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-atomic</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">Assistive technologies will present the entire region as a whole.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">A change within the region may be processed by the assistive technologies on its own.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-autocomplete"></a>`aria-autocomplete` (property)

Indicates whether user input completion suggestions are provided.

For a [`textbox`](#textbox) with the `aria-autocomplete` [attribute](#def_attribute) set to either `inline` or `both`, authors **SHOULD** ensure that any auto-completed text is selected, so the user can type over it.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-autocomplete</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">XForms selection attribute in [select](http://www.w3.org/TR/2006/REC-xforms-20060314/slice8.html#ui-selectMany)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`combobox`](#combobox)
* [`textbox`](#textbox)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[token](#valuetype_token)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-autocomplete</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">inline:</th>
<td class="value-description">The system provides text after the caret as a suggestion for how to complete the field.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">list:</th>
<td class="value-description">A list of choices appears from which the user can choose.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">both:</th>
<td class="value-description">A list of choices appears and the currently selected suggestion also appears inline.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">none (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">No input completion suggestions are provided.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-busy"></a>`aria-busy` (state)

Indicates whether an element, and its subtree, are currently being updated.

The default is that `aria-busy` is `false`. If authors know that multiple parts of the same element need to be loaded or modified, they can set `aria-busy` to `true` when the first part is loaded, and then set `aria-busy` to `false` when the last part is loaded. When a widget is missing [required owned elements](#mustContain) due to script execution or loading, authors **MUST** mark a containing element with [`aria-busy`](#aria-busy) equal to `true`. For example, until a page is fully initialized and complete, an author could mark the document element as busy. If there is an error updating the element, author **MAY** set the [`aria-invalid`](#aria-invalid) attribute to `true`.

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-busy</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[true/false](#valuetype_true-false)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-busy</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">The live region is still being updated.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">There are no more expected updates for that live region.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-checked"></a>`aria-checked` (state)

Indicates the current "checked" [state](#def_state) of checkboxes, radio buttons, and other [widgets](#def_widget). See related [`aria-pressed`](#aria-pressed) and [`aria-selected`](#aria-selected).

The [`aria-checked`](#aria-checked) [attribute](#def_attribute) indicates whether the [element](#def_element) is checked (`true`), unchecked (`false`), or represents a group of other elements that have a mixture of checked and unchecked [values](#def_value) (`mixed`). Most inputs only support values of `true` and `false`, but the `mixed` value is supported by certain tri-state inputs such as a [`checkbox`](#checkbox) or [`menuitemcheckbox`](#menuitemcheckbox).

The `mixed` value is **not** supported on [`radio`](#radio) or [`menuitemradio`](#menuitemradio) or any element that inherits from these in the [taxonomy](#def_taxonomy), and [user agents](#def_useragent) **MUST** treat a `mixed` value as equivalent to `false` for those [roles](#def_role).

Examples using the `mixed` value of tri-state inputs are covered in [WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices](http://www.w3.org/TR/2013/WD-wai-aria-practices-20130307/) \[[ARIA-PRACTICES](#ref_ARIA-PRACTICES)\]

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-checked</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">[`option`](#option)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="state-descendants">
* [`menuitemradio`](#menuitemradio)
* [`radio`](#radio)
* [`treeitem`](#treeitem)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[tristate](#valuetype_tristate)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-checked</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element is checked.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">false:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element supports being checked but is not currently checked.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">mixed:</th>
<td class="value-description">Indicates a mixed mode value for a tri-state checkbox or menuitemcheckbox.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">undefined (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element does not support being checked.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-controls"></a>`aria-controls` (property)

Identifies the [element](#def_element) (or elements) whose contents or presence are controlled by the current element. See related [`aria-owns`](#aria-owns).

For example:

* A table of contents tree view may control the content of a neighboring document pane.
* A group of checkboxes may control what commodity prices are tracked live in a table or graph.
* A tab controls the display of its associated tab panel.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-controls</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[ID reference list](#valuetype_idref_list)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-describedby"></a>`aria-describedby` (property)

Identifies the [element](#def_element) (or elements) that describes the [object](#def_object). See related [`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby).

The `aria-labelledby` attribute is similar to [`aria-describedby`](#aria-describedby) in that both reference other elements to calculate a text alternative, but a label should be concise, where a description is intended to provide more verbose information.

The element or elements referenced by the aria-describedby comprise the entire description. Include ID references to multiple elements if necessary, or enclose a set of elements (e.g., paragraphs) with the element referenced by the ID.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-describedby</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">Related concepts:
* Hint or Help in [XForms](http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-xforms-20071029/) \[[XForms](#ref_XFORMS)\]
* Label in XForms
* Label in [HTML](http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-xhtml1-20020801/) \[[HTML](#ref_XHTML)\]
* online help
* HTML table cell headers

HTML label element, and HTML table cell headers are de facto describedby values.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[ID reference list](#valuetype_idref_list)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-disabled"></a>`aria-disabled` (state)

Indicates that the [element](#def_element) is [perceivable](#def_perceivable) but disabled, so it is not editable or otherwise [operable](#def_operable). See related [`aria-hidden`](#aria-hidden) and [`aria-readonly`](#aria-readonly).

For example, irrelevant options in a radio group may be disabled. Disabled elements might not receive focus from the tab order. For some disabled elements, applications might choose not to support navigation to descendants. In addition to setting the `aria-disabled` attribute, authors **SHOULD** change the appearance (grayed out, etc.) to indicate that the item has been disabled.

The [state](#def_state) of being disabled applies to the current element and all focusable descendant elements of the element on which the [`aria-disabled`](#aria-disabled) [attribute](#def_attribute) is applied.

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-disabled</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[true/false](#valuetype_true-false)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-disabled</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element and all focusable descendants are disabled and its value cannot be changed by the user.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element is enabled.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-dropeffect"></a>`aria-dropeffect` (property)

Indicates what functions can be performed when the dragged object is released on the drop target. This allows assistive technologies to convey the possible drag options available to users, including whether a pop-up menu of choices is provided by the application. Typically, drop effect functions can only be provided once an object has been grabbed for a drag operation as the drop effect functions available are dependent on the object being dragged.

More than one drop effect may be supported for a given [element](#def_element). Therefore, the [value](#def_value) of this [attribute](#def_attribute) is a space-delimited set of tokens indicating the possible effects, or `none` if there is no supported operation. In addition to setting the `aria-dropeffect` attribute, authors **SHOULD** show a visual indication of potential drop targets.

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-dropeffect</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[token list](#valuetype_token_list)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-dropeffect</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">copy:</th>
<td class="value-description">A duplicate of the source object will be dropped into the target.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">move:</th>
<td class="value-description">The source object will be removed from its current location and dropped into the target.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">link:</th>
<td class="value-description">A reference or shortcut to the dragged object will be created in the target object.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">execute:</th>
<td class="value-description">A function supported by the drop target is executed, using the drag source as an input.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">popup:</th>
<td class="value-description">There is a popup menu or dialog that allows the user to choose one of the drag operations (copy, move, link, execute) and any other drag functionality, such as cancel.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">none (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">No operation can be performed; effectively cancels the drag operation if an attempt is made to drop on this object. Ignored if combined with any other token value. e.g. 'none copy' is equivalent to a 'copy' value.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-expanded"></a>`aria-expanded` (state)

Indicates whether the element, or another grouping element it controls, is currently expanded or collapsed.

For example, this indicates whether a portion of a tree is expanded or collapsed. In other instances, this may be applied to page sections to mark expandable and collapsible regions that are flexible for managing content density. Simplifying the user interface by collapsing sections may improve usability for all, including those with cognitive or developmental disabilities.

If the element with the `aria-expanded` attribute controls the expansion of another grouping container that is not 'owned by' the element, the author **SHOULD** reference the container by using the [`aria-controls`](#aria-controls) attribute.

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-expanded</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="state-related">Tapered prompts in voice browsing. Switch in [SMIL](http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-smil-19980615/) \[[SMIL](#ref_SMIL)\].</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">
* [`button`](#button)
* [`document`](#document)
* [`link`](#link)
* [`section`](#section)
* [`sectionhead`](#sectionhead)
* [`separator`](#separator)
* [`window`](#window)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="state-descendants">
* [`alert`](#alert)
* [`alertdialog`](#alertdialog)
* [`application`](#application)
* [`article`](#article)
* [`banner`](#banner)
* [`columnheader`](#columnheader)
* [`combobox`](#combobox)
* [`complementary`](#complementary)
* [`contentinfo`](#contentinfo)
* [`definition`](#definition)
* [`dialog`](#dialog)
* [`directory`](#directory)
* [`form`](#form)
* [`grid`](#grid)
* [`gridcell`](#gridcell)
* [`group`](#group)
* [`heading`](#heading)
* [`img`](#img)
* [`landmark`](#landmark)
* [`list`](#list)
* [`listbox`](#listbox)
* [`listitem`](#listitem)
* [`log`](#log)
* [`main`](#main)
* [`marquee`](#marquee)
* [`math`](#math)
* [`menu`](#menu)
* [`menubar`](#menubar)
* [`navigation`](#navigation)
* [`note`](#note)
* [`radiogroup`](#radiogroup)
* [`region`](#region)
* [`row`](#row)
* [`rowgroup`](#rowgroup)
* [`rowheader`](#rowheader)
* [`search`](#search)
* [`select`](#select)
* [`status`](#status)
* [`tab`](#tab)
* [`tablist`](#tablist)
* [`tabpanel`](#tabpanel)
* [`timer`](#timer)
* [`toolbar`](#toolbar)
* [`tooltip`](#tooltip)
* [`tree`](#tree)
* [`treegrid`](#treegrid)
* [`treeitem`](#treeitem)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[true/false/undefined](#valuetype_true-false-undefined)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-expanded</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element, or another grouping element it controls, is expanded.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">false:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element, or another grouping element it controls, is collapsed.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">undefined (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element, or another grouping element it controls, is neither expandable nor collapsible; all its child elements are shown or there are no child elements.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-flowto"></a>`aria-flowto` (property)

Identifies the next [element](#def_element) (or elements) in an alternate reading order of content which, at the user's discretion, allows assistive technology to override the general default of reading in document source order.

When `aria-flowto` has a single IDREF, it allows [assistive technologies](#def_at) to, at the user's request, forego normal document reading order and go to the targeted [object](#def_object). However, when `aria-flowto` is provided with multiple IDREFS, assistive technologies **SHOULD** present the referenced elements as path choices.

In the case of one or more IDREFS, [user agents](#def_useragent) or assistive technologies **SHOULD** give the user the option of navigating to any of the targeted elements. The name of the path can be determined by the name of the target element of the `aria-flowto` [attribute](#def_attribute). [Accessibility APIs](#def_accessibility_api) can provide named path [relationships](#def_relationship).

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-flowto</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[ID reference list](#valuetype_idref_list)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-grabbed"></a>`aria-grabbed` (state)

Indicates an element's "grabbed" [state](#def_state) in a drag-and-drop operation.

When it is set to `true` it has been selected for dragging, `false` indicates that the [element](#def_element) can be grabbed for a drag-and-drop operation, but is not currently grabbed, and `undefined` (or no [value](#def_value)) indicates the element cannot be grabbed (default).

When `aria-grabbed` is set to `true`, authors **SHOULD** update the [`aria-dropeffect`](#aria-dropeffect) [attribute](#def_attribute) of all potential drop targets. When an element is not grabbed (the value is set to `false`, `undefined`, or the attribute is removed), authors **SHOULD** revert the [`aria-dropeffect`](#aria-dropeffect) attributes of the associated drop targets to `none`.

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-grabbed</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[true/false/undefined](#valuetype_true-false-undefined)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-grabbed</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">Indicates that the element has been "grabbed" for dragging.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">false:</th>
<td class="value-description">Indicates that the element supports being dragged.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">undefined (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">Indicates that the element does not support being dragged.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-haspopup"></a>`aria-haspopup` (property)

Indicates that the [element](#def_element) has a popup context menu or sub-level menu.

This means that activation renders conditional content. Note that ordinary tooltips are not considered popups in this context.

A popup is generally presented visually as a group of items that appears to be on top of the main page content.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-haspopup</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">
* [`aria-controls`](#aria-controls)
* [User Agent Accessibility Guidelines](http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-UAAG10-20021217/) \[[UAAG](#ref_UAAG)\] conditional content

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[true/false](#valuetype_true-false)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-haspopup</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">Indicates the object has a popup, either as a descendant or pointed to by [`aria-owns`](#aria-owns).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">The object has no popup.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-hidden"></a>`aria-hidden` (state)

Indicates that the [element](#def_element) and all of its descendants are not visible or [perceivable](#def_perceivable) to _any_ user as implemented by the author. See related [`aria-disabled`](#aria-disabled).

If an element is only visible after some user action, authors **MUST** set the `aria-hidden` [attribute](#def_attribute) to `true`. When the element is presented, authors **MUST** set the `aria-hidden` attribute to `false` or remove the attribute, indicating that the element is visible. Some assistive technologies access WAI-ARIA information directly through the DOM and not through platform accessibility supported by the browser. Authors **MUST** set `aria-hidden="true"` on content that is not displayed, regardless of the mechanism used to hide it. This allows [assistive technologies](#def_at) or [user agents](#def_useragent) to properly skip [hidden](#def_hidden) elements in the document.

It is recommended that authors key visibility of elements off this attribute, rather than change visibility and separately have to remember to update this [property](#def_property). CSS 2 provides a way to [select on attribute values](http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-CSS2-19980512/selector.html#q10) (\[[CSS](#ref_CSS)\]). The following CSS declaration makes content visible unless the `aria-hidden` attribute is `true`; scripts need only update the [value](#def_value) of this attribute to change visibility:

```css
[aria-hidden="true"] { visibility: hidden; }
```

> Note: Authors are reminded that [visibility:hidden](http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/visufx.html#visibility) and [display:none](http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/visuren.html#propdef-display) apply to _all_ [CSS media types](http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/media.html#media-types); therefore, use of either will hide the content from assistive technologies that access the DOM through a rendering engine. However, in order to support assistive technologies that access the DOM directly, or other authoring techniques to visibly _hide_ content (for example, opacity or [off-screen positioning](http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/visuren.html#propdef-position)), authors need to ensure the `aria-hidden` attribute is always updated accordingly when an element is shown or hidden, unless the intent of using off-screen positioning is to make the content visible only to screen reader users and not others.

Authors **MAY**, with caution, use aria-hidden to hide visibly rendered content from assistive technologies _only_ if the act of hiding this content is intended to improve the experience for users of assistive technologies by removing redundant or extraneous content. Authors using aria-hidden to hide visible content from screen readers **MUST** ensure that identical or equivalent meaning and functionality is exposed to assistive technologies.

> Note: Authors are advised to use extreme caution and consider a wide range of disabilities when hiding visibly rendered content from assistive technologies. For example, a sighted, dexterity-impaired individual may use voice-controlled assistive technologies to access a visual interface. If an author hides visible link text "Go to checkout" and exposes similar, yet non-identical link text "Check out now" to the accessibility API, the user may be unable to access the interface they perceive using voice control. Similar problems may also arise for screen reader users. For example, a sighted telephone support technician may attempt to have the blind screen reader user click the "Go to checkout" link, which they may be unable to find using a type-ahead item search ("Go to…").

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-hidden</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[true/false](#valuetype_true-false)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-hidden</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">Indicates that this section of the document and its children are hidden from the rendered view.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">Indicates that this section of the document is rendered.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

> Note: Authors are advised to avoid using `aria-hidden="false"` with styles or attributes that have historically prevented rendering in all modalities, such as `display:none` or `visibility:hidden` in CSS, or the `hidden` attribute in HTML 5. At the time of this writing, `aria-hidden="false"` is known to work inconsistently when used in conjunction with such features. As future implementations improve, use caution and test thoroughly before relying on this approach.

---

### <a id="#aria-invalid"></a>`aria-invalid` (state)

Indicates the entered value does not conform to the format expected by the application.

If the value is computed to be invalid or out-of-range, the application author **SHOULD** set this [attribute](#def_attribute) to `true`. [User agents](#def_useragent) **SHOULD** inform the user of the error. Application authors **SHOULD** provide suggestions for corrections if they are known. Authors **MAY** prevent form submission when an associated form element has its `aria-invalid` attribute set to `true`.

When the user attempts to submit data involving a field for which [`aria-required`](#aria-required) is `true`, authors **MAY** use the `aria-invalid` attribute to signal there is an error. However, if the user has not attempted to submit the form, authors **SHOULD NOT** set the `aria-invalid` attribute on required [widgets](#def_widget) simply because the user has not yet entered data.

For future expansion, the `aria-invalid` attribute is an enumerated type. Any value not recognized in the list of allowed [values](#def_value) **MUST** be treated by user agents as if the value `true` had been provided. If the attribute is not present, or its value is `false`, or its value is an empty string, the default value of `false` applies.

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-invalid</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="state-related">
[XForms](http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-xforms-20071029/) \[[XForms](#ref_XFORMS)\] 'invalid' event http://www.w3.org/TR/2006/REC-xforms-20060314/slice4.html#evt-revalidate. Note: This state is `true` if a form field is required but empty. However, the XForms `valid` property would be set to `false`.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[token](#valuetype_token)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-invalid</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">grammar:</th>
<td class="value-description">A grammatical error was detected.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">There are no detected errors in the value.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">spelling:</th>
<td class="value-description">A spelling error was detected.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">The value entered by the user has failed validation.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-label"></a>`aria-label` (property)

Defines a string [value](#def_value) that labels the current element. See related [`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby).

The purpose of `aria-label` is the same as that of [`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby). It provides the user with a recognizable name of the object. The most common [accessibility API](#def_accessibility_api) mapping for a label is the [accessible name](#def_accessible_name) property.

If the label text is visible on screen, authors **SHOULD** use [`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby) and **SHOULD NOT** use `aria-label`. There may be instances where the name of an element cannot be determined programmatically from the content of the element, and there are cases where providing a visible label is not the desired user experience. Most host languages provide an attribute that could be used to name the element (e.g., the [title attribute in HTML](http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/struct/global.html#adef-title) \[[HTML](#ref_HTML)\]), yet this could present a browser tooltip. In the cases where a visible label or visible tooltip is undesirable, authors **MAY** set the accessible name of the element using `aria-label`. As required by the [text alternative computation](#textalternativecomputation), user agents give precedence to [`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby) over `aria-label` when computing the accessible name property.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-label</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">A related concept is title in [HTML](http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-xhtml1-20020801/) \[[HTML](#ref_XHTML)\].</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[string](#valuetype_string)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-labelledby"></a>`aria-labelledby` (property)

Identifies the [element](#def_element) (or elements) that labels the current element. See related [`aria-label`](#aria-label) and [`aria-describedby`](#aria-describedby).

The purpose of `aria-labelledby` is the same as that of [`aria-label`](#aria-label). It provides the user with a recognizable name of the object. The most common [accessibility API](#def_accessibility_api) mapping for a label is the [accessible name](#def_accessible_name) property.

If the label text is visible on screen, authors **SHOULD** use `aria-labelledby` and **SHOULD NOT** use [`aria-label`](#aria-label). Use [`aria-label`](#aria-label) only if the interface is such that it is not possible to have a visible label on the screen. As required by the [text alternative computation](#textalternativecomputation), user agents give precedence to `aria-labelledby` over [`aria-label`](#aria-label) when computing the accessible name property.

The `aria-labelledby` attribute is similar to [`aria-describedby`](#aria-describedby) in that both reference other elements to calculate a text alternative, but a label should be concise, where a description is intended to provide more verbose information.

> Note: The expected spelling of this property in U.S. English is "labeledby." However, the [accessibility API](#def_accessibility_api) features to which this property is mapped have established the "labelledby" spelling. This property is spelled that way to match the convention and minimize the difficulty for developers.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-labelledby</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">A related concept is label in [XForms](http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-xforms-20071029/) \[[XForms](#ref_XFORMS)\] and [HTML](http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-xhtml1-20020801/) \[[HTML](#ref_XHTML)\].</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[ID reference list](#valuetype_idref_list)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-level"></a>`aria-level` (property)

Defines the hierarchical level of an [element](#def_element) within a structure.

This can be applied inside trees to tree items, to headings inside a document, to nested grids, nested tablists and to other structural items that may appear inside a container or participate in an ownership hierarchy. The [value](#def_value) for `aria-level` is an integer greater than or equal to 1.

Levels increase with depth. If the DOM ancestry does not accurately represent the level, authors **SHOULD** explicitly define the `aria-level` [attribute](#def_attribute).

This attribute is applied to elements that act as leaf nodes within the orientation of the set, for example, on elements with role [`treeitem`](#treeitem) rather than elements with role [`group`](#group). This means that multiple elements in a set may have the same value for this attribute. Although it would be less repetitive to provide a single value on the container, restricting this to leaf nodes ensures that there is a single way for [assistive technologies](#def_at) to use the attribute.

If the DOM ancestry accurately represents the level, the [user agent](#def_useragent) can calculate the level of an item from the document structure. This attribute can be used to provide an explicit indication of the level when that is not possible to calculate from the document structure or the [`aria-owns`](#aria-owns) attribute. User agent support for automatic calculation of level may vary; authors **SHOULD** test with [user agents](#def_useragent) and assistive technologies to determine whether this attribute is needed. If the author intends for the user agent to calculate the level, the author **SHOULD** omit this attribute.

> Note: In the case of a [`treegrid`](#treegrid), `aria-level` is supported on elements with the role [`row`](#row), not elements with role [`gridcell`](#gridcell). At first glance, this may seem inconsistent with the application of `aria-level` on [`treeitem`](#treeitem) elements, but it is consistent in that the [`row`](#row) acts as the leaf node within the vertical orientation of the [`grid`](#grid), whereas the [`gridcell`](#gridcell) is a leaf node within the horizontal orientation of each [`row`](#row). Level is not supported on sets of cells within rows, so the `aria-level` attribute is applied to the element with the role [`row`](#row).

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-level</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`grid`](#grid)
* [`heading`](#heading)
* [`listitem`](#listitem)
* [`row`](#row)
* [`tablist`](#tablist)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`treegrid`](#treegrid)
* [`treeitem`](#treeitem)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[integer](#valuetype_integer)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-live"></a>`aria-live` (property)

Indicates that an [element](#def_element) will be updated, and describes the types of updates the [user agents](#def_useragent), [assistive technologies](#def_at), and user can expect from the [live region](#def_liveregion).

The [values](#def_value) of this [attribute](#def_attribute) are expressed in degrees of importance. When regions are specified as `polite`, assistive technologies will notify users of updates but generally do not interrupt the current task, and updates take low priority. When regions are specified as `assertive`, assistive technologies will immediately notify the user, and could potentially clear the speech queue of previous updates. Please refer to [Live Region Properties and How to Use Them](http://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/aria-practices/#liveprops) (\[[ARIA-PRACTICES](#ref_ARIA-PRACTICES)\], Section 5.2.1).

Politeness levels are essentially an ordering mechanism for updates and serve as a strong suggestion to user agents or assistive technologies. The value may be overridden by user agents, assistive technologies, or the user. For example, if assistive technologies can determine that a change occurred in response to a key press or a mouse click, the assistive technologies may present that change immediately even if the value of the `aria-live` attribute states otherwise.

Since different users have different needs, it is up to the user to tweak his or her assistive technologies' response to a live region with a certain politeness level from the commonly defined baseline. Assistive technologies may choose to implement increasing and decreasing levels of granularity so that the user can exercise control over queues and interruptions.

When the [property](#def_property) is not set on an [object](#def_object) that needs to send updates, the politeness level is the value of the nearest ancestor that sets the `aria-live` attribute.

The `aria-live` attribute is the primary determination for the order of presentation of changes to live regions. Implementations will also consider the default level of politeness in a [role](#def_role) when the `aria-live` attribute is not set in the ancestor chain (e.g., [`log`](#log) changes are `polite` by default). Items which are `assertive` will be presented immediately, followed by `polite` items. User agents or assistive technologies **MAY** choose to clear queued changes when an assertive change occurs. (e.g., changes in an assertive region may remove all currently queued changes)

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-live</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[token](#valuetype_token)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-live</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">off (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">Updates to the region will not be presented to the user unless the assistive technology is currently focused on that region.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">polite:</th>
<td class="value-description">(Background change) Assistive technologies **SHOULD** announce updates at the next graceful opportunity, such as at the end of speaking the current sentence or when the user pauses typing.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">assertive:</th>
<td class="value-description">This information has the highest priority and assistive technologies **SHOULD** notify the user immediately. Because an interruption may disorient users or cause them to not complete their current task, authors **SHOULD NOT** use the assertive value unless the interruption is imperative.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-multiline"></a>`aria-multiline` (property)

Indicates whether a text box accepts multiple lines of input or only a single line.

> Note: In most user agent implementations, the default behavior of the <kbd>ENTER</kbd> or <kbd>RETURN</kbd> key is different between the single-line and multi-line text fields in HTML. When user has focus in a single-line `<span class="tag">&lt;input type=<span class="str">"text"</span>&gt;</span>` element, the keystroke usually submits the form. When user has focus in a multi-line `<span class="tag">&lt;textarea&gt;</span>` element, the keystroke inserts a line break. The WAI-ARIA `textbox` role differentiates these types of boxes with the [`aria-multiline`](#aria-multiline) attribute, so authors are advised to be aware of this distinction when designing the field.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-multiline</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">[`textbox`](#textbox)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[true/false](#valuetype_true-false)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-multiline</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">This is a multi-line text box.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">This is a single-line text box.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-multiselectable"></a>`aria-multiselectable` (property)

Indicates that the user may select more than one item from the current selectable descendants.

Authors **SHOULD** ensure that selected descendants have the [`aria-selected`](#aria-selected) [attribute](#def_attribute) set to `true`, and selectable descendant have the [`aria-selected`](#aria-selected) attribute set to `false`. Authors **SHOULD NOT** use the [`aria-selected`](#aria-selected) attribute on descendants that are not selectable.

> Note: Lists and trees are examples of roles that might allow users to select more than one item at a time.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-multiselectable</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`grid`](#grid)
* [`listbox`](#listbox)
* [`tablist`](#tablist)
* [`tree`](#tree)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`treegrid`](#treegrid)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[true/false](#valuetype_true-false)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-multiselectable</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">More than one item in the widget may be selected at a time.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">Only one item can be selected.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-orientation"></a>`aria-orientation` (property)

Indicates whether the element and orientation is horizontal or vertical.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-orientation</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`scrollbar`](#scrollbar)
* [`separator`](#separator)
* [`slider`](#slider)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[token](#valuetype_token)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-orientation</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">vertical:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element is oriented vertically.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">horizontal (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element is oriented horizontally.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-owns"></a>`aria-owns` (property)

Identifies an [element](#def_element) (or elements) in order to define a visual, functional, or contextual parent/child [relationship](#def_relationship) between DOM elements where the DOM hierarchy cannot be used to represent the relationship. See related [`aria-controls`](#aria-controls).

The [value](#def_value) of the `aria-owns` [attribute](#def_attribute) is a space-separated list of IDREFS that reference one or more elements in the document by ID. The reason for adding `aria-owns` is to expose a parent/child contextual relationship to [assistive technologies](#def_at) that is otherwise impossible to infer from the DOM.

Authors **SHOULD NOT** use `aria-owns` as a replacement for the DOM hierarchy. If the relationship is represented in the DOM, do not use `aria-owns`. Authors **MUST** ensure that an element's ID is not specified in more than one other element's `aria-owns` attribute at any time. In other words, an element can have only one explicit owner.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-owns</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[ID reference list](#valuetype_idref_list)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-posinset"></a>`aria-posinset` (property)

Defines an [element](#def_element)'s number or position in the current set of listitems or treeitems. Not required if all elements in the set are present in the DOM. See related [`aria-setsize`](#aria-setsize).

If all items in a set are present in the document structure, it is not necessary to set this [attribute](#def_attribute), as the [user agent](#def_useragent) can automatically calculate the set size and position for each item. However, if only a portion of the set is present in the document structure at a given moment, this [property](#def_property) is needed to provide an explicit indication of an element's position.

The following example shows items 5 through 8 in a set of 16.

```html
<h2 id="label_fruit"> Available Fruit </h2>
<ul role="listbox" aria-labelledby="label_fruit">
    <li role="option" aria-setsize="16" aria-posinset="5"> apples </li>
    <li role="option" aria-setsize="16" aria-posinset="6"> bananas </li>
    <li role="option" aria-setsize="16" aria-posinset="7"> cantaloupes </li>
    <li role="option" aria-setsize="16" aria-posinset="8"> dates </li>
</ul>
```

Authors **MUST** set the [value](#def_value) for `aria-posinset` to an integer greater than or equal to 1, and less than or equal to the size of the set. Authors **SHOULD** use `aria-posinset` in conjunction with [`aria-setsize`](#aria-setsize).

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-posinset</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`listitem`](#listitem)
* [`option`](#option)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`menuitemradio`](#menuitemradio)
* [`radio`](#radio)
* [`treeitem`](#treeitem)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[integer](#valuetype_integer)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-pressed"></a>`aria-pressed` (state)

Indicates the current "pressed" [state](#def_state) of toggle buttons. See related [`aria-checked`](#aria-checked) and [`aria-selected`](#aria-selected).

Toggle buttons require a full press-and-release cycle to change their [value](#def_value). Activating it once changes the value to `true`, and activating it another time changes the value back to `false`. A value of `mixed` means that the values of more than one item controlled by the button do not all share the same value. Examples of mixed-state buttons are described in [WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices](http://www.w3.org/TR/2013/WD-wai-aria-practices-20130307/) \[[ARIA-PRACTICES](#ref_ARIA-PRACTICES)\]. If the [attribute](#def_attribute) is not present, the button is not a toggle button.

The `aria-pressed` attribute is similar but not identical to the [`aria-checked`](#aria-checked) attribute. Operating systems support `pressed` on buttons and `checked` on checkboxes.

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-pressed</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">[`button`](#button)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[tristate](#valuetype_tristate)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-pressed</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element is pressed.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">false:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element supports being pressed but is not currently pressed.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">mixed:</th>
<td class="value-description">Indicates a mixed mode value for a tri-state toggle button.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">undefined (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element does not support being pressed.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-readonly"></a>`aria-readonly` (property)

Indicates that the [element](#def_element) is not editable, but is otherwise [operable](#def_operable). See related [`aria-disabled`](#aria-disabled).

This means the user can read but not set the value of the [widget](#def_widget). Readonly elements are relevant to the user, and application authors **SHOULD NOT** restrict navigation to the element or its focusable descendants. Other actions such as copying the value of the element are also supported. This is in contrast to disabled elements, to which applications might not allow user navigation to descendants.

Examples include:

* A form element which represents a constant.
* Row or column headers in a spreadsheet grid.
* The result of a calculation such as a shopping cart total.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-readonly</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">
[XForms](http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-xforms-20071029/) \[[XForms](#ref_XFORMS)\] Readonly</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`grid`](#grid)
* [`gridcell`](#gridcell)
* [`textbox`](#textbox)
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`columnheader`](#columnheader)
* [`rowheader`](#rowheader)
* [`treegrid`](#treegrid)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[true/false](#valuetype_true-false)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-readonly</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">The user cannot change the value of the element.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">The user can set the value of the element.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-relevant"></a>`aria-relevant` (property)

Indicates what user agent change notifications (additions, removals, etc.) assistive technologies will receive within a [live region](#def_liveregion). See related [`aria-atomic`](#aria-atomic).

The [attribute](#def_attribute) is represented as a space delimited list of the following [values](#def_value): `additions`, `removals`, `text`; or a single catch-all value `all`.

This is used to describe [semantically](#def_semantics) meaningful changes, as opposed to merely presentational ones. For example, nodes that are removed from the top of a log are merely removed for purposes of creating room for other entries, and the removal of them does not have meaning. However, in the case of a buddy list, removal of a buddy name indicates that they are no longer online, and this is a meaningful [event](#def_event). In that case `aria-relevant` will be set to `all`. When the `aria-relevant` attribute is not provided, the default value, `additions text`, indicates that text modifications and node additions are relevant, but that node removals are irrelevant.

> Note: `aria-relevant` values of removals or all are to be used sparingly. Assistive technologies only need to be informed of content removal when its removal represents an important change, such as a buddy leaving a chat room.

> Note: Text removals should only be considered relevant if one of the specified values is 'removals' or 'all'. For example, for a text change from 'foo' to 'bar' in a live region with a default `aria-relevant` value, the text addition ('bar') would be spoken, but the text removal ('foo') would not.

`aria-relevant` is an optional attribute of live regions. This is a suggestion to [assistive technologies](#def_at), but assistive technologies are not required to present changes of all the relevant types.

Both [accessibility APIs](#def_accessibility_api) and [Document Object Model Level 2 Events](http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Events/events.html#Events-eventgroupings-mutationevents) \[[DOM](#ref_DOM)\] provides events to allow assistive technologies to determine changed areas of the document.

When `aria-relevant` is not defined, an element's value is inherited from the nearest ancestor with a defined value. Although the value is a [token list](#valuetype_token_list), inherited values are not additive; the value provided on a descendant element completely overrides any inherited value from an ancestor element.

When text changes are denoted as relevant, user agents **MUST** monitor any descendant node change that affects the [text alternative computation](#textalternativecomputation) of the live region as if the accessible name were determined from contents ([nameFrom: contents](#namecalculation)). For example, a text change would be triggered if the HTML `alt` attribute of a contained image changed. However, no change would be triggered if there was a text change to a node outside the live region, even if that node was referenced (via [`aria-labelledby`](#aria-labelledby)) by an element contained in the live region.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-relevant</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">All elements of the base markup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[token list](#valuetype_token_list)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-relevant</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">additions:</th>
<td class="value-description">Element nodes are added to the DOM within the live region.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">removals:</th>
<td class="value-description">Text or element nodes within the live region are removed from the DOM.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">text:</th>
<td class="value-description">Text is added to any DOM descendant nodes of the live region.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">all:</th>
<td class="value-description">Equivalent to the combination of all values, "additions removals text".</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">additions text (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">Equivalent to the combination of values, "additions text".</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-required"></a>`aria-required` (property)

Indicates that user input is required on the [element](#def_element) before a form may be submitted.

For example, if the user needs to fill in an address field, the author will need to set the field's `aria-required` attribute to `true`.

> Note: The fact that the element is required is often presented visually (such as a sign or symbol after the [widget](#def_widget)). Using the `aria-required` [attribute](#def_attribute) allows the author to explicitly convey to [assistive technologies](#def_at) that an element is required.

Unless an exactly equivalent native attribute is available, host languages **SHOULD** allow authors to use the `aria-required` attribute on host language form elements that require input or selection by the user.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-required</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">
<span class="role-related">HTML 5 [required](http://www.w3.org/TR/2010/WD-html5-20100624/common-input-element-attributes.html#the-required-attribute)</span>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`combobox`](#combobox)
* [`gridcell`](#gridcell)
* [`listbox`](#listbox)
* [`radiogroup`](#radiogroup)
* [`spinbutton`](#spinbutton)
* [`textbox`](#textbox)
* [`tree`](#tree)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`columnheader`](#columnheader)
* [`rowheader`](#rowheader)
* [`treegrid`](#treegrid)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[true/false](#valuetype_true-false)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-required</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">Users need to provide input on an element before a form is submitted.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">false (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">User input is not necessary to submit the form.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-selected"></a>`aria-selected` (state)

Indicates the current "selected" [state](#def_state) of various [widgets](#def_widget). See related [`aria-checked`](#aria-checked) and [`aria-pressed`](#aria-pressed).

This [attribute](#def_attribute) is used with single-selection and multiple-selection widgets:

1. Single-selection containers where the currently focused item is not selected. The selection normally follows the focus, and is managed by the [user agent](#def_useragent).
2. Multiple-selection containers. Authors **SHOULD** ensure that any selectable descendant of a container in which the [`aria-multiselectable`](#aria-multiselectable) attribute is `true` specifies a value of either `true` or `false` for the `aria-selected` attribute.

Any explicit assignment of `aria-selected` takes precedence over the implicit selection based on focus. If no DOM element in the widget is explicitly marked as selected, assistive technologies **MAY** convey implicit selection which follows the keyboard focus of the [managed focus](#managingfocus) widget. If any DOM element in the widget is explicitly marked as selected, the user agent **MUST NOT** convey implicit selection for the widget.

<table class="state-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-selected</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="state-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="state-applicability">
* [`gridcell`](#gridcell)
* [`option`](#option)
* [`row`](#row)
* [`tab`](#tab)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="state-descendants">
* [`columnheader`](#columnheader)
* [`menuitemradio`](#menuitemradio)
* [`radio`](#radio)
* [`rowheader`](#rowheader)
* [`treeitem`](#treeitem)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="state-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="state-value">[true/false/undefined](#valuetype_true-false-undefined)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-selected</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">true:</th>
<td class="value-description">The selectable element is selected.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">false:</th>
<td class="value-description">The selectable element is not selected.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">undefined (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">The element is not selectable.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-setsize"></a>`aria-setsize` (property)

Defines the number of items in the current set of listitems or treeitems. Not required if all elements in the set are present in the DOM. See related [`aria-posinset`](#aria-posinset).

This [property](#def_property) is marked on the members of a set, not the container element that collects the members of the set. To orient the user by saying an element is "item X out of Y," the [assistive technologies](#def_at) would use X equal to the [`aria-posinset`](#aria-posinset) [attribute](#def_attribute) and Y equal to the `aria-setsize` attribute.

If all items in a set are present in the document structure, it is not necessary to set this property, as the [user agent](#def_useragent) can automatically calculate the set size and position for each item. However, if only a portion of the set is present in the document structure at a given moment (in order to reduce document size), this property is needed to provide an explicit indication of set size.

The following example shows items 5 through 8 in a set of 16.

```html
<h2 id="label_fruit"> Available Fruit </h2>
<ul role="listbox" aria-labelledby="label_fruit">
    <li role="option" aria-setsize="16" aria-posinset="5"> apples </li>
    <li role="option" aria-setsize="16" aria-posinset="6"> bananas </li>
    <li role="option" aria-setsize="16" aria-posinset="7"> cantaloupes </li>
    <li role="option" aria-setsize="16" aria-posinset="8"> dates </li>
</ul>
```

Authors **SHOULD** use `aria-setsize` in conjunction with [`aria-posinset`](#aria-posinset).

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-setsize</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`listitem`](#listitem)
* [`option`](#option)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`menuitemradio`](#menuitemradio)
* [`radio`](#radio)
* [`treeitem`](#treeitem)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[integer](#valuetype_integer)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-sort"></a>`aria-sort` (property)

Indicates if items in a table or grid are sorted in ascending or descending order.

Authors **SHOULD** only apply this [property](#def_property) to table headers or grid headers. If the property is not provided, there is no defined sort order. For each table or grid, authors **SHOULD** apply `aria-sort` to only one header at a time.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-sort</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`columnheader`](#columnheader)
* [`rowheader`](#rowheader)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[token](#valuetype_token)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

<table class="value-descriptions">
<caption>Values of aria-sort</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
<th scope="col">Description</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">ascending:</th>
<td class="value-description">Items are sorted in ascending order by this column.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">descending:</th>
<td class="value-description">Items are sorted in descending order by this column.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">
<strong class="default">none (default)**:</th>
<td class="value-description">There is no defined sort applied to the column.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="value-name">other:</th>
<td class="value-description">A sort algorithm other than ascending or descending has been applied.</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-valuemax"></a>`aria-valuemax` (property)

Defines the maximum allowed value for a range [widget](#def_widget).

A range widget may start with a given value, which can be increased until a maximum value, defined by this [property](#def_property), is reached.

Declaring the minimum and maximum [values](#def_value) allows alternate devices to react to arrow keys, validate the current value, or simply let the user know the size of the range. If the [`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow) has a known maximum and minimum, the author **SHOULD** provide properties for `aria-valuemax` and [`aria-valuemin`](#aria-valuemin). Authors **MUST** ensure the value of `aria-valuemax` is greater than or equal to the value of `aria-valuemin`.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-valuemax</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">
[XForms](http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-xforms-20071029/) \[[XForms](#ref_XFORMS)\] range</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`range`](#range)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`progressbar`](#progressbar)
* [`scrollbar`](#scrollbar)
* [`slider`](#slider)
* [`spinbutton`](#spinbutton)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[number](#valuetype_number)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-valuemin"></a>`aria-valuemin` (property)

Defines the minimum allowed value for a range [widget](#def_widget).

A range widget may start with a given value, which can be decreased until a minimum value, defined by this [property](#def_property), is reached.

Declaring the minimum and maximum [values](#def_value) allows alternate devices to react to arrow keys, validate the current value, or simply let the user know the size of the range. If the [`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow) has a known maximum and minimum, the author **SHOULD** provide properties for [`aria-valuemax`](#aria-valuemax) and `aria-valuemin`.

Authors **MUST** ensure the value of `aria-valuemin` is less than or equal to the value of `aria-valuemax`.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-valuemin</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">
[XForms](http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-xforms-20071029/) \[[XForms](#ref_XFORMS)\] range</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`range`](#range)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`progressbar`](#progressbar)
* [`scrollbar`](#scrollbar)
* [`slider`](#slider)
* [`spinbutton`](#spinbutton)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[number](#valuetype_number)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-valuenow"></a>`aria-valuenow` (property)

Defines the current value for a range [widget](#def_widget). See related [`aria-valuetext`](#aria-valuetext).

This property is used, for example, on a range widget such as a slider or progress bar.

If the current value is not known (for example, an indeterminate progress bar), the author **SHOULD NOT** set the `aria-valuenow` [attribute](#def_attribute). If the `aria-valuenow` attribute is absent, no information is implied about the current value. If the `aria-valuenow` has a known maximum and minimum, the author **SHOULD** provide properties for [`aria-valuemax`](#aria-valuemax) and [`aria-valuemin`](#aria-valuemin).

The value of `aria-valuenow` is a decimal number. If the range is a set of numeric values, then `aria-valuenow` is one of those values. For example, if the range is [0, 1], a valid `aria-valuenow` is 0.5. A value outside the range, such as -2.5 or 1.1, is invalid.

For [`progressbar`](#progressbar) elements and [`scrollbar`](#scrollbar) elements, assistive technologies **SHOULD** render the value to users as a percent, calculated as a position on the range from [`aria-valuemin`](#aria-valuemin) to [`aria-valuemax`](#aria-valuemax) if both are defined, otherwise the actual value with a percent indicator. For elements with role [`slider`](#slider) and [`spinbutton`](#spinbutton), assistive technologies **SHOULD** render the actual value to users. 

When the rendered value cannot be accurately represented as a number, authors **SHOULD** use the [`aria-valuetext`](#aria-valuetext) attribute in conjunction with `aria-valuenow` to provide a user-friendly representation of the range's current value. For example, a slider may have rendered values of `small`, `medium`, and `large`. In this case, the values of `aria-valuenow` could range from 1 through 3, which indicate the position of each value in the value space, but the [`aria-valuetext`](#aria-valuetext) would be one of the strings: `small`, `medium`, or `large`.

> Note: If [`aria-valuetext`](#aria-valuetext) is specified, assistive technologies render that instead of the value of `aria-valuenow`.

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-valuenow</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">
[XForms](http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-xforms-20071029/) \[[XForms](#ref_XFORMS)\] range, start</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`range`](#range)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`progressbar`](#progressbar)
* [`scrollbar`](#scrollbar)
* [`slider`](#slider)
* [`spinbutton`](#spinbutton)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[number](#valuetype_number)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---

### <a id="#aria-valuetext"></a>`aria-valuetext` (property)

Defines the human readable text alternative of [`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow) for a range [widget](#def_widget).

This property is used, for example, on a range widget such as a slider or progress bar.

If the `aria-valuetext` [attribute](#def_attribute) is set, authors **SHOULD** also set the [`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow) attribute, unless that value is unknown (for example, on an indeterminate [`progressbar`](#progressbar)).

Authors **SHOULD** only set the `aria-valuetext` attribute when the rendered value cannot be meaningfully represented as a number. For example, a slider may have rendered values of `small`, `medium`, and `large`. In this case, the values of [`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow) could range from 1 through 3, which indicate the position of each value in the value space, but the `aria-valuetext` would be one of the strings: `small`, `medium`, or `large`. If the `aria-valuetext` attribute is absent, the [assistive technologies](#def_at) will rely solely on the [`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow) attribute for the current value.

If aria-valuetext is specified, assistive technologies **SHOULD** render that value instead of the value of [`aria-valuenow`](#aria-valuenow).

<table class="property-features">
<caption>Characteristics of aria-valuetext</caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="col">Characteristic</th>
<th scope="col">Value</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="property-related-head">Related Concepts:</th>
<td class="property-related">
[XForms](http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/REC-xforms-20071029/) \[[XForms](#ref_XFORMS)\] range, start</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-applicability-head">Used in Roles:</th>
<td class="property-applicability">
* [`range`](#range)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-descendants-head">Inherits into Roles:</th>
<td class="property-descendants">
* [`progressbar`](#progressbar)
* [`scrollbar`](#scrollbar)
* [`slider`](#slider)
* [`spinbutton`](#spinbutton)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class="property-value-head">Value:</th>
<td class="property-value">[string](#valuetype_string)</td>
</tr></tbody>
</table>

---